Add blog post for Ensuring Secret Pulled Images (#49999)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2025-05-12-ensure-secret-pulled-images/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.33: Image Pull Policy the way you always thought it worked!"

> date:  2025-05-12

Author: Dated for the [publication date suggested in slack via the publication schedule](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CJDHVD54J/p1745461641777509).

> draft: true

Author: Still draft as I haven't squashed away the commit history yet (for reviewers).

Reviewer: Leave this draft even after you squash it. We'll send in a small follow up to make it not-draft.

(or in our case, any secret) in it's `imagePullSecrets`. When the Kubelet tries to run the pod, it honors the `IfNotPresent` policy. The Kubelet sees that the *image Foo* is already present locally, and will provide *image Foo* to *Pod B*. *Pod B* gets to run the image even though it did not provide credentials authorizing it to pull the image in the first place.

{{< figure
    src="ensure_secret_image_pulls.svg"
    caption="Using a private image pulled by a different pod"
    alt="Illustration of the process of two pods trying to access a private image, the first one with a pull secret, the second one without it"
>}}

While `IfNotPresent` should not pull *image Foo* if it is already present
on the node, it is an incorrect security posture to allow all pods scheduled
to a node to have access to previously pulled private image. These pods were never
authorized to pull the image in the first place.

## IfNotPresent, but only if I am supposed to have it

> In Kubernetes 1.33, we - SIG Auth and SIG Node - are finally addressing this (really old) problem and getting the verification right! The basic expected behavior is not changed. If

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.33, we - SIG Auth and SIG Node - are finally addressing this (really old) problem and getting the verification right! The basic expected behavior is not changed. If
```

Pods utilizing the same credential will not be required to re-authenticate.
Pods that do not supply credentials previously used to successfully pull an
image will not be allowed to use the private image.

## Always pull, if authorized

The `imagePullPolicy: Always` has always worked as intended. Each time an image
is requested, the request goes to the registry and the registry will perform an authentication
check.

In the past, forcing the `Always` image pull policy via pod admission was the only way to ensure
that your private container images didn't get reused by other pods on nodes which already pulled the images.

Fortunately, this was somewhat performant. Only the image manifest was pulled, not the image. However, there was still a cost and a risk. During a new rollout, scale up, or pod restart, the image registry that provided the image MUST be available for the auth check, putting the image registry in the critical path for stability of services running inside of the cluster.

## How it all works

The feature is based on persistent, file-based caches that are present on each of
the nodes. The following is a simplified description of how the feature works.

> For the complete version, please see [KEP-2535](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/0262549808ebe7e64b94ee6f8e4fbdd024332470/keps/sig-node/2535-ensure-secret-pulled-images/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the complete version, please see [KEP-2535](https://kep.k8s.io/2535).
```

did you intend to pin this to a specific commit?

Author: Nope!  Appreciate that.

> The process of requesting an image for the first time goes likes this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process of requesting an image for the first time goes like this:
```

  1. A pod requesting an image from a private registry is scheduled to a node.
  1. The image is not present on the node.
  2. The Kubelet makes a record of the intention to pull the image.

>   3. The Kubelet extracts credentials from the Kubernetes Secret referenced by the Pod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  3. The Kubelet extracts credentials from the Kubernetes Secret referenced by the pod
```

     as an image pull secret, and uses them to pull the image from the private registry.
  4. After the image has been successfully pulled, the Kubelet makes a record of
     the successful pull. This record includes details about credentials used
     (in the form of a hash) as well as the Secret from which they originated.

>   5. The Kubelet removes the original record of intent.

Author: IIRC, the numbering doesn't matter in markdown, the final will render out appropriately, but I can change these all to `1.` and push again tomorrow (when I also squash away the intermediate commits).

  6. The Kubelet retains the record of successful pull for later use.

When future pods scheduled to the same node request the previously pulled private image:
  1. The Kubelet checks the credentials that the new pod provides for the pull.
  1. If the hash of these credentials, or the source Secret of the credentials match
     the hash or source Secret which were recorded for a previous successful pull,
     the pod is allowed to use the previously pulled image.
  1. If the credentials or their source Secret are not found in the records of
     successful pulls for that image, the Kubelet will attempt to use
     these new credentials to request a pull from the remote registry, triggering
     the authorization flow.

## Try it out

> In Kubernetes 1.33 we shipped the alpha version of this feature. To give it a spin,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.33 we shipped the alpha version of this feature. To give it a spin,
```

enable the `KubeletEnsureSecretPulledImages` feature gate for your 1.33 Kubelets.

You can learn more about the feature and additional optional configuration on the
[concept page for Images](/docs/concepts/containers/images/#ensureimagepullcredentialverification)
in the official Kubernetes documentation.

## What's next?

In future releases we are going to:
1. Make this feature work together with [Projected service account tokens for Kubelet image credential providers](https://kep.k8s.io/4412) which
   adds a new, workload-specific source of image pull credentials.

> 1. Write a benchmarking suite to be able to measure the performance of this feature
>    and to be able to measure the performance impact of any future changes to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write a benchmarking suite to measure the performance of this feature and assess the impact of any future changes.
```

(or in our case, any secret) in it's `imagePullSecrets`. When the Kubelet tries to run the pod, it honors the `IfNotPresent` policy. The Kubelet sees that the *image Foo* is already present locally, and will provide *image Foo* to *Pod B*. *Pod B* gets to run the image even though it did not provide credentials authorizing it to pull the image in the first place.

{{< figure
    src="ensure_secret_image_pulls.svg"
    caption="Using a private image pulled by a different pod"
    alt="Illustration of the process of two pods trying to access a private image, the first one with a pull secret, the second one without it"
>}}

While `IfNotPresent` should not pull *image Foo* if it is already present
on the node, it is an incorrect security posture to allow all pods scheduled
to a node to have access to previously pulled private image. These pods were never
authorized to pull the image in the first place.

## IfNotPresent, but only if I am supposed to have it

> In Kubernetes v1.33, we - SIG Auth and SIG Node - are finally addressing this (really old) problem and getting the verification right! The basic expected behavior is not changed. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.33, we - SIG Auth and SIG Node - have finally started to address this (really old) problem and getting the verification right! The basic expected behavior is not changed. If
```
It's important to write as if the release has happened.

Author: Shall I make this update post-merge?

  1. The Kubelet retains the record of successful pull for later use.

When future pods scheduled to the same node request the previously pulled private image:
  1. The Kubelet checks the credentials that the new pod provides for the pull.
  1. If the hash of these credentials, or the source Secret of the credentials match
     the hash or source Secret which were recorded for a previous successful pull,
     the pod is allowed to use the previously pulled image.
  1. If the credentials or their source Secret are not found in the records of
     successful pulls for that image, the Kubelet will attempt to use
     these new credentials to request a pull from the remote registry, triggering
     the authorization flow.

## Try it out

In Kubernetes v1.33 we shipped the alpha version of this feature. To give it a spin,
enable the `KubeletEnsureSecretPulledImages` feature gate for your 1.33 Kubelets.

You can learn more about the feature and additional optional configuration on the
[concept page for Images](/docs/concepts/containers/images/#ensureimagepullcredentialverification)
in the official Kubernetes documentation.

## What's next?

> In future releases we are going to:

Reviewer: Only make a commitment like this if you could (thought experiment) find someone from SIG Architecture willing to document that these outcomes must happen.

It it's not a **commitment**, write "we intend" or "I hope" etc.

Author: Shall I make this update post-merge?
